hey this is Martin Menendez here with
you out on the lake and I've got a
technique that we exposed several years
ago on a protein journal show and we
call it the donkey rig this name it got
named the donkey rig by some friends of
mine down in Georgia that they fished
this rig a lot and this rig will help an
angler catch two bass at a time and or
help catch some schooling bats that are
awfully tough to catch let me show you
how it what it's made up
it's made up of two barrel swivel Driggs
of different lengths you can see I've
got the long rig in the front and it's
tied to a barrel swivel where the
mainline comes directly through that
barrel swivel tied to another barrel
swivel which has a shorter leader to it
I like the longer leader on top I want
it to be the one that slides up and down
you can see I've got two shad like Bates
here these are z2s these are soft jerk
baits in a shad type color I love this
bait because of the fall rate this is
made of the elastic the stretchy
material and when I jerked the bait and
stopped it
it hesitates just a second and then it
slides on off if I need a faster fall I
put a caffeine shad on it where it
doesn't have as much buoyancy to it if I
want to keep them on top I'll put a Zulu
on it so I've got twin topwater baits
the key to this bait is its action all
the angler has to do is make the cast
twitch it at a slow rate twitch twitch
twitch in these two baits dart and dive
and move and go crazy creating a
competition like atmosphere you've got
the two barrel swivels that look like
some kind of little small silvery minnow
in the front with two smaller fish
chasing
vast seas that competition he's not
gonna let it go how many times in the
fall have you been in the back into the
bag covered with shad and bass or busted
back there you throw everything in your
tackle box and you can't catch her
the donkey rig is a way to catch those
fish and it may not be a fast fast
retreat it may be it more of a slower
retreat down in the water column
fluorocarbon line is a great way to fish
this bait because fluorocarbon has the
tendency to sink because of its heavy
density and its sensitivity make a long
cast count the bait down and get the
bait under the balls of shad will get
those schoolers to eat it the other
thing that it's been successful for me
is just finding fish not necessarily
catching them but finding you know open
tournament at West Point that I won
several years ago I found my fish using
this rig I did not catch one in the
tournament on the rig I've taken a round
boat docks down the bank different types
of cover lay down blowdowns whatever I'm
fishing around I could twitch that thing
in a relatively quick pace the bass
would see it and maybe not eat it but
he'd go right back to his house mark
that on my ranch with GPS come back to
it fish it with a different technique
the first day I found myself in third
place after doing that and I moved up to
win the tournament by seven pounds with
fish I found with the donkey a donkey
rig is a great way to catch multiple
fish and catch those hard to catch a
schooling fish that are so frustrating
when they show themselves to you try the
donkey rig it's a lot of fun whether
you're an experienced angler or a novice
just seeing the baits go crazy is an
awful lot of fun to watch it's even
cooler when a great old big bass comes
up there needs one of your debates
try the doc your age I hope you catch
some of it